SECTOR ZULU

Mem Size? 26499

'Sector Zulu' is a space war game for one player. The object of the game is to
search out and destroy all enemy ships which are threatening to overtake this
sector of the galaxy.

Your ship, the 'Epsilon 1', is placed somewhere in the two-dimensional, 70 x 70
galaxy at the start of the game. You can see three spaces in every direction,
and the Epsilon 1 is shown as a '+' in the centre of the sensor scan.
When enemy ships come into this area they begin to fire at your ship.
They don't wait for you! The game is over when either you or all enemy ships
are destroyed. Hopefully, if you make it through alive, you will be given a
rating based on how long it took you to complete the mission.

Entities:
+ - Epsilon 1
. - Empty Space
X - Boundary
* - Star ........Blocks your movement and missiles
^ - Asteroid ....Too small to detect at close range, so
                 sensors don't stop you from flying into it
  - Black Hole ..Like asteroid, except it can't be destroyed
                 and you won't get out alive
# - Base ........Breathe a sigh of relief - refuel/re-arm here!
? - Unknown .....These ships won't bother you if you don't bother them,
                 but if you do hit one expect anything to happen (6-10)

Enemy Ships:
@ - Krylon ......Easy to destroy but there are lots of them (16-25)
% - Spector .....About average but strength is unpredictable (6-10)
& - Xorian ......Mean ones - very dangerous and hard to destroy (3-5)

Weapons:
! - Torpedo
$ - Quantum Mine

Game Control:
To use a command on the Epsilon 1, press one key on the keyboard without
pressing enter. Usually you will then be asked to give more information
about the command (such as direction and speed for movement).
Don't worry about making mistakes. Just retype the letter or number required.
Pressing 'A' will abort any command. Movement and most weapons can be directed
in one of eight directions shown below:
8   1   2
7   +   3
6   5   4
This diagram is shown on the bottom-left corner of the screen during the game.

Commands:
M - Movement - You will be asked for the direction (1-8) and speed (1-5) that
    you want to move, and the Epsilon 1 moves across the sector until you stop
    it or you hit something. To dock at a base you must move into it, and you
    are safe there until you move again.
S - Stop - Stops movement. If you are moving at high speed there is a small
    delay before stopping due to the ship's momentum.
C - Computer Information - Will give you the number of quantum mines,
    torpedoes, bases, Krylons, Spectors, or Xorians remaining in the game.
    Press the first letter of what you want to know the number of.
E - Energy Distribution - The Epsilon 1 has a total of 1000 units of energy in
    storage at the beginning of the game and when docked at a base.
    This energy	is divided into five systems in the ship:
       FFD - Force Field - 500 units
       ENG - Engines - 200 units
       ION - Ion Beam - 100 units
       RAY - Alpha ray - 100 units
       COM - Computer/Life Support- 100 units
    The Force Field takes the blows of enemy fire (and flying into asteroids).
    If it drops to 0, all other systems drop quickly and unpredictably -
    a dangerous situation.
    Engines are lowered by movement, and operate above 0 units.
    The Computer/Life Support system falls slowly and steadily. If it drops
    below 50 units many functions like computer information will not work.
    If it reaches 0 you've had it!
    The Ion Beam and Alpha Ray will be explained later. The 'E' command is used
    to move energy from one system to another. You will be asked for the number
    of units to be changed (press 'Enter' after the number), and then the
    systems that the energy is taken from and transferred to
    (just press the first letter of the system's name).
    Example:
    To move 100 units of energy from ffd (force field) to eng (engines), type
    in '100 (Enter)', then 'F', then 'E'.

Weapons:
A - Alpha Ray - To use the alpha ray you can use any amount of energy in the
    ship's system, and any other ship within three spaces will be affected.
    If a ship is right next to the Epsilon 1 it will be hit with the amount
    specified, but ships that are farther away will receive less damage.
I - Ion Beam - Has a range of three spaces in any direction, and does 100 units
    of damage to any ship hit. The ion beam uses 20 units of energy each time
    it is used until it reaches 0 units.
T - Torpedo - Torpedoes move slowly, doing 200 units damage to any ship hit.
    They will travel indefinitely until they hit something, but you can only
    only launch one at a time.
Q - Quantum Mine - A quantum mine moves around randomly until exploded -
    destroying anything within one space of it. This explosion has the
    interesting effect of turning space into 'non-space', and flying into the
    remains of one is the same as for a black hole. The Epsilon 1 can carry up
    to three quantum mines, and you can only launch one at a time.
X - Explode Quantum Mine - It does what it says (be careful not to use this
    command when a quantum mine is right next to you!).
H - Hyperspace - This experimental form of transportation moves you almost
    instantly to a random location in the sector. It uses none of the ship's
    energy and is a good way to get out of a dangerous situation.
    Unfortunately, there is the possibility that you will be moved to where
    a star or some other object should be, and the Epsilon 1 will instantly
    disintegrate!
D - Self-destruct - In case you have really blown the game, this is an
    honourable way to resign your duty. You will be given a brief count-down
    before the final event if you wish to change your mind.
